U1

In most cases, these students struggle to make a decision, because they don’t know how to confront their loved ones about a change in their intended career. Some students decide to change majors because they are truggling

in basic courses for their intended major, while some others have come to so detest their major that they find it necessary to switch to

another that they really love.

在大多数情况下，这些学生难以做出决定，因为他们不知道在决定变换被规划好的职业的时候该如何面对自己的亲人。有些学生决定转专业是因为他们无法应付所学专业的基础课，而另一些学生则是因为他们实在厌恶所学的专业，必须换一个自己真正喜欢的专业。



Experts believe that there is nothing wrong with realizing that your major doesn’t suit your skills and talents. In fact, the ability to make such a realization is a sign of maturity. The trick is to find a major that does suit you better. Before making the switch, you need to meet with an academic advisor, research your choice by talking to professors or professionals, and ask yourself serious questions about whether it is the right choice for you.

专家认为，意识到所学专业不适合自己的技能和天赋没什么错。实际上，能意识到这一点是成熟的标志。重要的是找到一个真正适合你的专业。在转专业之前，你需要见学业导师，跟教授或专业人员谈谈，做一些调查，问自己几个严肃的问题，看看你的选择是否正确。


---


中国有一句话，叫“人贵有自知之明”。这个观念的 最早提出者是老子。老子在《道德经》里说“知人者智，自知者明”。有“自知之明”是指人应该对自己有正确的认识，了解自身的优点和缺点，清醒地知道自己能做什么。

As the Chinese saying goes, it isimportant to know oneself. The first person to put forward this notion wasLaozi, who wrote in his book Dao De Jing: “A person who knows others isintelligent, but a person who knows himself is insightful.” To know oneself isto have a correct understanding of oneself, including one’s strengths andlimitations, and to be clear-minded about what one can do. 





我们把人的自知视为“贵”，可见做到“自知”是多么的不易。“自知之明”是一种人生哲学，也是一种品德。它可以帮助我们不断地修正自己，朝着更高的人生目标迈进。

We cherish this virtue so muchprecisely because it is really hard for people to know themselves. Knowingoneself is both part of a philosophy of life and a virtue that can facilitateself-improvement and attainment of a higher life goal.



U2

Parents in the West know all too well the weaknesses of overprotected children. They are risk averse (害怕冒险), have difficulty making decisions, and lack the means to become successful in life. During their university years, many of them cannot reasonably adjust to the rigours of university life, and often drop out. 

在西方，做父母的非常了解受父母过度保护的孩子的弱点：这些孩子害怕冒险，缺乏决断力，缺少在现实生活中获得成功的手段；上大学时，许多人无法较好地适应大学生活的严苛，退学是常有的事。



Therefore, parents place a high premium on developing independence in their children. They provide plenty of opportunities for their children to learn independent thinking skills, and make them understand that independence skills will help them become more efficient and empowered, in their classrooms and out of them. 

因此，父母非常注重培养孩子独立自主的能力。他们给孩子提供大量的学习独立思考技能的机会，让孩子认识到独立自主的能力可以提升他们在课堂内外的学习效率及表现。



Moreover, parents encourage independence by providing limited choices for their children, respecting their preferences and helping them achieve excellence in the tasks they perform.

此外，他们还给孩子有限的选择，尊重孩子的偏好，帮助孩子出色地完成各项任务，以这种方式鼓励他们独立自主。



They also involve their children in planning and decision-making processes, asking them to suggest ideas. Most important of all, they encourage their children to do all kinds of tasks on their own, including everyday household chores, and often give them positive reinforcement rather than finding fault with their conduct.

他们还让孩子参与筹划和决策的过程，让他们提出自己的看法。尤其重要的是，他们鼓励孩子独立完成各项任务——包括日常家务活，并经常给予正面的鼓励，避免对他们的行为吹毛求疵。

---

与父辈相比，现在的孩子在物质生活上要丰富得多，但在精神上则略有欠缺。他们不太可能和伙伴们一起玩，玩具取代伙伴成了他们最忠实的朋友。他们的父母从不缺钱给他们买各种贵重玩具。

Compared with the childhood of their parents,  children now do enjoy a far better material life, but their emotional life seems less satisfying. They are less likely to play with their peers, for toys have replaced their playmates as their most loyal friends. Their parents can always afford to buy them all kinds of expensive toys.



这样的好处是：他们不再整天缠着父母，因为玩具和电子游戏减轻了他们的孤独感。但也有负面影响：沉迷于玩具和电子游戏会让孩子视力下降或者让他们不愿意与别人交流。这种现象应引起家长和学校的关注。

The good thing about this is thatthey no longer pester their parents to play with them all day long, becausetoys and video games have lessened their feelings of loneliness. But there arealso negative effects: The addiction to toys and video games may cause achild’s eyesight to deteriorate or result in reluctance to communicate withothers. These phenomena should demand the attention of both parents and schools.



U3



Guernica is a large mural, painted in 1937 by the Spanish artist Pablo Picasso, to protest against the bombing of a small village in northern Spain. Standing at 3.49 metres tall and 7.76 metreswide, the large mural shows the suffering of people and animals amidst buildings wrenched by violence and chaos. Surprisingly, there is no vivid red colour to show flowing blood, for the mural is startlingly grey, black, and white. But thereis no avoiding the horror of the images.

《格尔尼卡》是西班牙艺术家巴勃罗·毕加索 1937 年为抗议轰炸西班牙北部一个小村庄而作的一幅巨型壁画。这幅大型壁画高 3.49 米，宽 7.76米，展示了暴力和混乱给人和动物带来的苦难以及对建筑物的破坏。令人吃惊的是，整个壁画的色调由灰、黑、白组成，没有用鲜艳的红色来表现血腥的场面，但恐怖的景象却历历在目。



The figures are not drawn realistically, but are done in a style that is Cubist and abstract, though it is apparent that innocent civilians are being slaughtered. A mother screams with her mouth wide open, her head tipped back in heart-rending anguish, as she holds her dead baby. A soldier lies dead on the ground, clutching his broken sword, and three other people are shown in shock and agony. 

画面上的人物并非用写实主义的画法来表现，而是采用立体派和抽象派的画法，但无辜平民惨遭屠杀的惨象却一目了然：一位母亲怀抱死婴，张嘴尖叫，她仰面朝天，伤心欲绝；一位士兵横尸地上，手里还紧握着一把断剑；另外三个人也都处于震惊和痛苦

之中。



Animals, including a tortured horse and a crying bird, are also portrayed as innocent victims of a massacre. There is no doubt that the distorted, horrifying images are intended to shock the viewer. This depiction of human grief is a profound statement of the cruelty and senselessness of war.

画面中的动物——包括一匹受伤的马和一只哭泣的鸟——也都被描绘成这次屠杀的无辜受害者。

毫无疑问，描绘这些扭曲变形的骇人惨象的目的就是让观众感到震惊。

这种对人类悲苦惨状的描绘是对战争的残酷和荒谬的深刻控诉。

---

在敦煌莫高窟，最著名的艺术杰作要数壁画“飞天”（ flying apsaras）。敦煌飞天是印度文化和中国文化共同孕育而成的。在印度，被称为“飞天”的空中飞行的天神（celestial beings）多出现在佛教石窟壁画（grotto mural）中，中国道教传统则把在空中飞行的天神称为“飞仙”（ flying immortals）。

In the Mogaocaves in Dunhuang, the murals with “flying apsaras” are one of the most well-known artefacts. The flying apsarasin the Dunhuang Grotto Murals are a product of the intermixing of Indian and Chinese culture. In India, flying celestial beings called “flying apsaras” appear mostly in murals in Buddhist caves, while in the Chinese Daoist tradition, flying celestial beings are known as “flying immortals”.



魏晋南北朝时，佛教初传入中国，壁画中的飞仙开始被称为“飞天”。后来，随着佛教在中国的深入发展，佛教的飞天和道教的飞仙在艺术形象上相互融合。敦煌莫高窟的飞天是中国古代艺术家的杰作，是世界艺术史的奇迹。

During the Wei, Jin, and Northern and Southern dynasties, when the introduction of Buddhism in China was at an early stage, people began to use the term “flying apsaras” to refer to the flying immortals in the murals.

Later, with the development of Buddhism in China, the artistic images of Buddhist flying apsarasand Daoist flying immortals merged with each other. 



The flying apsarasin the Dunhuang Grotto Murals are a most ingenious creation of ancient Chinese artists, and a marvel in the history of world art.



u4

Over recent decades in Europe, the family is one of the domains where the greatest chges have taken place. The traditional European nuclear family consisted of a married father and mother with several children, but today this is only one option among many. Declining marriage rates, an increased number of divorces, the wide acceptance of co-habitation, the legalization of same-sex marriage and dropping fertility rates have caused the size of the average household within the European Union to drop to 2.4 people.

在欧洲，家庭是近几十年来发生变化最大的领域之一。传统的欧洲核心家庭由一对已婚父母和几个孩子构成，但现在这种家庭只是诸多选择中的一个。日益下降的结婚率、离婚人数的增加、人们对同居的普遍接受、同性婚姻的合法化、日渐下降的生育率让欧盟家庭的平均人口数下降到了2.4人。





Yet family remains of the utmost importance to people. Eighty four percent of Europeans say that family is very important, almost twice as many as those who find friends very important. Perhaps the most significant changes relate to childbearing, since these result in important demographic changes over time.

家庭对人们来说依然是至关重要的。84%的欧洲人认为家庭非常重要，这个数字是那些认为朋友很重要的人数的两倍。也许影响最为重大的一些变化和生育有关，因为随着时间的推移这些变化会引发人口结构上的重要改变。



Throughout Europe, having children is no longer considered a duty towards society, but rather just one of life’s options. The choice to stay childless is well accepted in many countries. The driving force behind these changes appears to be  individualization. Values oriented towards autonomy, privacy, self-actualization and personal happiness have become more important, and have ousted values that point at collective goals.

在整个欧洲，人们不再把生育子女看作是对社会的责任，而是把它视为诸多生活选项中的一个。在很多国家，丁克的做法被广泛接受。这些改变背后的推动力似乎是个体化。追求独立自主、隐私、自我实现和个人幸福的价值观已经变得越来越重要，这让那些注重集体目标的价值观失去了容身之所。

---

目前，中国老年人口居世界第一，已经进入老龄化社会。而中国现在正处于社会转型期，建立一个完整的社会福利体系仍需很长的一段时间，因此中国的养老问题较为特殊。预计在今后半个世纪，家庭养老仍然是中国主流的养老模式。

China, with the largest population ofelderly people in the world, has become an ageing society. Meanwhile, China isalso a country undergoing social transition. It will be a long time before asound social welfare system can be established, which means that China is in aunique situation when it comes to care of its ageing population. It ispredicted that in the next 50 years, family care for the aged will still be thedominant practice in China. 



孝敬父母（filial piety）一直是中国传统伦理道德（ethics）的重要组成部分。在当今这样一个老龄化的社会中，弘扬孝道就显得更加重要，因为在鼓励人们对家里的老人提供日常照顾和情感慰藉方面，孝道仍将起关键性的作用。

Filialpiety has always been a significant part of traditional Chinese ethics. Intoday’s ageing society, it will be all the more important to promote the virtueof filial piety, as it will continue to play a crucial role in encouraging  people to take good care of their elderlyfamily members by providing daily care and emotional support.



U5

The American Dream is the national ethos of the United States. Put simply, it is the idea that America is a land of opportunity, where hard work will allow a person to experience prosperity and success. Belief in social and economic mobility, that Americans rise from humble origins to riches, has been called a “civil religion”. Famous instances of  great economic and social mobility include Benjamin Franklin and Henry Ford. 

美国梦是美国民族精神的体现。简而言之，其观念就是美国是一个充满机会的地方；在那里，只要肯努力奋斗，就能获得富裕、成功。这种对改善社会地位和经济状况的信仰，即美国人可以从卑微的穷人变为富人的信仰，一直被称为“国民宗教”。在经济状况和社会地位上获得巨大提升的著名案例包括本杰明·富兰克林和亨利·福特。



 Additional popular examples of upward social mobility between generations in America include

Abraham Lincoln and Bill Clinton, who were born into working-class families yet achieved high political office in adult life.Opinion polls show that this belief is stronger in the US than in years past, and stronger than in other

developed countries.



其他从父辈到子辈就实现从美国下层社会跻身上流社会的最为人津津乐道的例子是亚伯拉罕·林肯和比尔·克林顿。他们虽然出身于工人阶级家庭，却在成年之后当上了高官。民意测验表明，现在美国人的这个信念比以往任何时候都强，比其他任何发达国家的都强。



However, in recent years several large studies have found that vertical intergenerational mobility is lower in the US than in comparable countries. A 2013 Brookings Institution study found income inequality was becoming more permanent, sharply reducing social mobility. A large academic study released in 2014 found income mobility had not changed appreciably in the last 20 years.

但是，近年来，几项大型的研究发现，与同类国家相比，美国的垂直代际社会流动性降低。2013年，布鲁金斯学会的一项研究发现，收入的不平等正变得更加固定，从而大大降低了社会流动性。2014年发布的一项大型学术研究的结果发现在过去的20 年里，收入的流动性没有发生显著的变化。

---

女性是劳动力市场的重要组成部分。但是当前劳动就业中的性别歧视仍然存在，这与我国构建和谐社会的要求背道而驰。就劳动者而言，不能人尽其才，不仅造成人力资本投资的浪费，还会使她们对社会公正产生怀疑；

Women are an important part ofthe labour force. But gender discriminationin the job market still exists, and serves as a counterforce to the building ofa harmonious society. As far as employees are concerned, jobs that do not suittheir talents will not only give rise to a waste of the investment in humancapital, but also cause them to lose faith in social justice. 



就用人单位而言，性别歧视不仅破坏人才选拔的程序，造成人才浪费，

也会不利于人们正确理解何为正常运转的市场；

就社会而言，性别歧视不仅干扰人力资源的正常流动，还会破坏就业市场的公平环境。

As for employers, genderdiscrimination will not only disrupt the process of selecting talent, and thuswaste talent, but will also harm the perception of a properly functioningmarket. On the level of society, gender discrimination will set an obstacle tothe proper distribution of human resources, and damage a fair environment inthe job market. 



U6

The modern American holiday of Mother’s Day was first celebrated

in 1908, when Anna Jarvis held a memorial for her mother in Grafton, West Virginia. Her campaign to make “Mother’s Day” a recognized holiday in the US began in 1905, the year her beloved mother died.



1908年，安娜·贾维斯在西弗吉尼亚州的格拉夫顿市为自己的母亲举行了一个追思会，这是人们第一次庆祝母亲节这个现代美国节日。贾维斯深爱的母亲于1905年去世，从这年开始她就积极开展活动，要让母亲节成为美国的正式节日。



Due to the efforts of Anna Jarvis, in 1914 Woodrow Wilson signed the proclamation ( 公告) creating Mother’s Day as a national holiday to honourmothers. Although Jarvis was successful in founding Mother’s Day, she soon became resentful of its commercialization. By the early 1920s, some companies had started selling Mother’s Day  cards.

经过安娜·贾维斯的努力，1914年伍德罗·威尔逊总统签署公告设立母亲节，使它成为一个向母亲致敬的全国性节日。尽管贾维斯成功地创立了母亲节，但是母亲节的商业化很快就让她感到了不满。到了20世纪20年代初，很多公司开始出售母亲节贺。。



Jarvis became so angered by what she saw asmisinterpretation and exploitation that she protested against Mother’s Day and even tried to remove it from the calendar. The originalintention of the holiday was to appreciate and honourmothers by writing a personal letter, byhand, expressing love and gratitude; it wasn’t to buy gifts and cards.

贾维斯对这种在她看来是误解和开发利用母亲节的行为感到痛心，她提出抗议甚至试图要废除母亲节。这个节日的初衷是让大家向母亲表示感谢和敬意，采取的形式应该是写亲笔信传达爱意和感激，而不是通过买礼物和贺卡这样的方式。



Jarvis’ holiday is now celebrated all over the world. Mother’s Day falls  on different days depending on the countries where it is celebrated. It is held on the second Sunday of May in many countries, such as  Australia, Canada and the United States.

贾维斯创立的这个节日现在已经是全球性的节日。不同的国家庆祝母亲节的日期有所不同。在很多国家，例如澳大利亚、加拿大和美国，人们庆祝母亲节的日子是五月的第二个星期天。


---


春节是中国最重要的传统节日。但近年来，很多人都抱怨过年的气氛越来越淡，已经很难感受到记忆中过年的那种美好感觉了。事实上，春节在过去之所以显得重要，是因为只有到了春节人们才能享美食、穿新衣。

The Spring Festival is the mostimportant traditional holiday in China. But in recent years, many people havecomplained that the celebratory atmosphere of lunar New Year is notas strong as it used to be, andit is hard for them to regain that wonderful feeling in theirmemories. In fact, in the past,it was only during the Spring Festival that people couldenjoy delicious food and wear newclothes.



而随着中国经济的迅速发展，人们的物质生活越来越丰富，人们庆祝春节的方式也发生了一些变化。比如说，越来越多的人选择过年时外出旅游。但无论如何，对于中国人来说，春节的重要性是不可替代的。

This explains why this holidaywas so importanttoChinese people. But with the rapid development of the Chinese economy and anincreasingly rich material life,the ways in which Chinese people celebrate the Spring Festivalhave changed. For instance, moreand more Chinese people choose to travel during theSpring Festival. Nonetheless, forChinese people, the Spring Festival plays an irreplaceable role in their culture.





Unit6

 

英译汉

Themodern American holiday of Mother's Day was first celebrated in 1908, when AnnaJarvis held a memorial for her mother in Grafton, West Virginia. Her campaignto make "Mother's Day" a recognized holiday in the US began in 1905,the year her beloved mother died. Due to the efforts of Anna Jarvis, in 1914Woodrow Wilson signed the proclamation (公告)creating Mother's Day as a national holiday to honour mothers. Although Jarviswas successful in founding Mother's Day, she soon became resentful of itscommercialization. By the early 1920s, some companies had started sellingMother's Day cards. Jarvis became so angered by what she saw asmisinterpretation and exploitation that she protested against Mother's Day andeven tried to remove it from the calendar. The original intention of theholiday was to appreciate and honour mothers by writing a personal letter, byhand, expressing love and gratitude; it wasn't to buy gifts and cards. Jarvis'holiday is now celebrated all over the world. Mother's Day falls on differentdays depending on the countries where it is celebrated. It is held on thesecond Sunday of May in many countries, such as Australia, Canada and theUnited States.

Reference:
1908年，安娜•贾维斯在西弗吉尼亚州的格拉夫顿市为自己的母亲举行了一个追思会，这是人们第一次庆祝母亲节这个现代美国节日。贾维斯深爱的母亲于1905年去世，从这年开始她就积极开展活动，要让母亲节成为美国的正式节日。经过安娜•贾维斯的努力，1914年伍德罗•威尔逊总统签署公告设立母亲节，使它成为一个向母亲致敬的全国性节日。尽管贾维斯成功地创立了母亲节，但是母亲节的商业化很快就让她感到了不满。到了20世纪20年代初，很多公司开始出售母亲节贺卡，贾维斯对这种在她看来是误解和开发利用母亲节的行为感到痛心，她提出抗议甚至试图要废除母亲节。这个节日的初衷是让大家向母亲表示感谢和敬意，采取的形式应该是写亲笔信传达爱意和感激，而不是通过买礼物和贺卡这样的方式。贾维斯创立的这个节日现在已经是全球性的节日。不同的国家庆祝母亲节的日期有所不同。在很多国家，例如澳大利亚、加拿大和美国，人们庆祝母亲节的日子是五月的第二个星期天。

---
汉译英

春节是中国最重要的传统节日。但近年来，很多人都抱怨过年的气氛越来越淡，已经很难感受到记忆中过年的那种美好感觉了。事实上，春节在过去之所以显得重要，是因为只有到了春节人们才能享美食、穿新衣。而随着中国经济的迅速发展，人们的物质生活越来越丰富，人们庆祝春节的方式也发生了一些变化。比如说，越来越多的人选择过年时外出旅游。但无论如何，对于中国人来说，春节的重要性是不可替代的。

Reference:
The Spring Festival is the most important traditional holidayin China. But in recent years, many people have complained that the celebratoryatmosphere of lunar New Year is not as strong as it used to be, and it is hardfor them to regain that wonderful feeling in their memories. In fact, in thepast, it was only during the Spring Festival that people could enjoy deliciousfood and wear new clothes. This explains why this holiday was so important toChinese people. But with the rapid development of the Chinese economy and anincreasingly rich material life, the ways in which Chinese people celebrate theSpring Festival have changed. For instance, more and more Chinese people chooseto travel during the Spring Festival. Nonetheless, for Chinese people, theSpring Festival plays an irreplaceable role in their culture.

 

Unit7

 

英译汉

Thehero is an integral part of the American culture and identity. In America thehero takes many different forms, reflecting different values. As childrenAmericans are taught about the politicians and religious leaders who fought toestablish their country and those who have shaped America since. These arehistorically real people who have been elevated to a heroic status due to therole they played in creating the United States. This includes people likeGeorge Washington and Abraham Lincoln. In popular culture the comic booksuperhero has been, and continues to be, a major force. Beginning in the early20th century comic books gained popularity chronicling the adventures ofsuperheroes, like Superman. The athlete as hero is a more recentoccurrence in the history of hero figures. In the United States especially, therise of professional sports created athletes whose performance was widelypublicized. The notion of using single individuals to embody the ideals of manyis certainly not unique to American culture, but American people's fascinationwith heroes is rarely seen in other cultures.

Reference:
英雄是美国人文化和身份认同的必要组成部分。在美国，英雄人物是以各种不同的形象出现的，他们反映了不同的价值观。美国人从孩提时代起就学习那些为建立国家而奋斗的政治家和宗教领袖，学习那些建国后塑造美国历史的人。他们是历史上真实存在的人，因为在美国建国过程中发挥了巨大的作用而被提升为英雄，比如乔治•华盛顿和亚伯拉罕•林肯。在通俗文化中，漫画书中的超级英雄以前一直是，并将继续是一支主力军。从20世纪早期开始，这些描述超级英雄冒险奇遇的漫画书，如《超人》，就日益走红。运动员成为英雄这种现象是最近才在英雄人物史中出现的。以美国为甚，随着职业体育的兴起，出现了知名的运动员，他们的在运动场上的表现广为人知。用个体形象来体现大众理想的做法并不是美国文化所特有的，但是美国人对英雄的痴迷在其他文化中也是很少见的。

 
---
汉译英

中国是世界上自然灾害较为严重的国家之一。在和平时期，抢险救灾是中国军队的一项重要任务。中国军队是抢险救灾的突击力量，承担最紧急、最艰难、最危险的救援任务。中国军人都是抱着打仗的心态在救灾，甚至冒着生命危险抢救灾民。每当解放军抵达灾区，群众都热烈欢迎，感到无比欣慰。中国军队在历次灾难救援中表现出的组织性、专业性、高效性赢得了人民群众的信任和赞誉。

Reference:
China is one of the countries that are most affected bynatural disasters. In peacetime, rescue and relief work is an important part ofthe mission of the Chinese military. China's armed forces always form taskforces for rescue and relief work, taking on the most urgent, most difficultand most dangerous jobs. Chinese military personnel perform their rescue andrelief work as if they were fighting a war, sometimes even at the risk of theirown lives. Whenever the People's Liberation Army (PLA) arrives at an area hitby a natural disaster, the local people will welcome them warmly and feelgreatly relieved. The sense of organization, professionalism and efficiencythey have displayed has helped them win the trust and praise of the public.

 

Unit8

英译汉

Theterm "Greek mythology" refers to the collection of tales belonging tothe ancient Greeks concerning their gods and their heroes, and which outlinetheir ritual practices and view of the world. Greek mythology includes a largecollection of stories, some of which explain the origins of the world, andothers of which detail the lives and adventures of a wide variety of gods andgoddesses, heroes and heroines, and various mythological creatures. Theseaccounts were initially fashioned and spread in an oral-poetic tradition,though they are known today primarily through Greek literature. Greek mythologyhas exercised an extensive and profound influence on the culture, arts andliterature of Western civilization. Indeed, Greek mythological themes haveremained continually relevant throughout Western literary history. Though theancient Greek religions based upon these tales have long since faded intoobscurity, Greek myths remain an important source for much of Western fiction,poetry, film and visual art. Greek mythology has played a pivotal role in thedevelopment of modern studies of mythology, psychology and philology, and itcontinues to be an important part of the cultural heritage of the globalcommunity.

Reference:
“希腊神话”指的是古代希腊关于神灵和英雄的各种传说的合集，这些传说描述了他们的宗教活动和世界观。希腊神话包含了大量的故事，有些故事解释了世界的起源，有些则详细描述了各种不同的男女神灵、男女英雄和神话动物的生活及冒险奇遇。虽然现在我们主要是通过书面形式的希腊文学了解这些故事，但起初它们是以口头诗歌的形式创作并传播的。希腊神话对西方文明的文化、艺术和文学都产生了广泛、深远的影响。的确，在整个西方文学史上，希腊神话所涉及的那些主题一直具有重要的意义。虽然建立在这些神话故事之上的古希腊宗教早就湮没于历史之中，但是希腊神话依然是大量西方小说、诗歌、电影和视觉艺术的一个重要的源泉。希腊神话在现代神话、心理学和语文学研究的发展中起到了至关重要的作用，它仍将是全球文化遗产的重要组成部分。

 
---
汉译英

古希腊神话的最大特点就是神和人形相同、习相近。古希腊人按照人的形象来创造神，神有人的感情欲望。而中国古代神话中的神大多距离人类生活较远。中国神话中正面形象的神多具有崇高的品格、伟大的志向以及为实现伟大理想而斗争的不屈不挠的精神。他们承担着维护宇宙秩序的崇高责任，是社会道德的楷模。可以说中国古代神话中的神多具有超凡脱俗的品格，神性多于人性。

Reference:
The most important characteristic of ancient Greekmythology is that gods and humans are similar, both in physical appearance andpersonality. Ancient Greeks created their gods in their own image, and theirgods have human emotions and desires. In Chinese mythology, however, the life ofthe gods is very different from that of humans. The good gods in Chinesemythology have a noble character, express great aspirations, and showperseverance in fighting for great ideals. They have the noble duty ofmaintaining the order of the universe; they are social and moral role models.It can be said that the gods in Chinese mythology have extraordinarily noblecharacters, and possess more of the qualities of gods than of humans.